Newsletters: add 262 (2023-08-02) (#1219)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2023-08-02-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #262'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2023/08/02/
name: 2023-08-02-newsletter
slug: 2023-08-02-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME:harding

## News

- **Transcripts of periodic LN specification meetings:** Carla
  Kirk-Cohen [posted][kc scripts] to the Lightning-Dev mailing list to

>   announce that the last several video conference meetings to discuss
>   changes to the LN specification were transcribed.  The transcripts are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  announce transcriptions of the last several video conference meetings to discuss
  changes to the LN specification.  The transcripts are
```

Author: Leaving as-is.  I think the sentence is stronger with the key word at the end.

  now [available][btcscripts spec] on Bitcoin Transcripts.  In related
  news, as discussed a few weeks ago during the in-person LN developer
  conference, the '#lightning-dev` IRC chatroom on the [Libera.chat][]
  network has seen a significant burst of renewed activity for
  LN-related discussion.

- **Safety of blind MuSig2 signing:** Tom Trevethan [posted][trevethan
  blind] to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list to request a review of a
  cryptographic protocol planned as part of a [statechains][topic
  statechains] deployment.  The goal was to deploy a service that would
  use its private key to create a [MuSig2][topic musig] partial
  signature without gaining any knowledge about what it was signing or
  how its partial signature was used.  The blind signer would simply
  report how many signatures it had created with a particular key.

    Discussion on the list examined pitfalls of various constructions

>     related to the specific problem and to [even more generalized blind

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    related to the specific problem and of [even more generalized blind
```
But I'm not sure if I'm parsing this sentence correctly. The discussion examined generalized blind schnorr signing pitfalls? If so, I think my suggestion is preferred.

    schnorr signing][generalized blind schnorr].  Also mentioned was a
    year-old [gist][somsen gist] by Ruben Somsen about a 1996 protocol

>     for blind Diffie-Helman (DH) key exchange, which can be used for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    for blind Diffie-Hellman (DH) key exchange, which can be used for
```

Reviewer 2: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diffie%E2%80%93Hellman_key_exchange

>     blinded ecash.  [Lucre][] and [Minicash][] are a previous

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    blinded ecash.  [Lucre][] and [Minicash][] are previous
```

[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo], and
[Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #26467][] allows the user to specify which output of a
  transaction is change in `bumpfee`. The wallet deducts value from
  this output to add fees when creating the replacement transaction. By
  default, the wallet attempts to detect a change output automatically
  and creates a new one if it fails to do so.

- [Core Lightning #6378][] and [#6449][core lightning #6449] will mark
  an offchain incoming [HTLC][topic htlc] as failed if the node is
  unable (or unwilling because of fee costs) to time out a corresponding
  onchain HTLC.  For example, Alice's node forwards an HTLC to Bob's
  node with an expiry of 20 blocks and Bob's node forwards an HTLC with
  the same payment hash to Carol's node with an expiry of 10 blocks.
  Subsequently, the channel between Bob and Carol is forced closed
  onchain.

>     After the 10 block expiry, there arises a situation that should not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    After the 10-block expiry, there arises a situation that should not
```

    be common: Bob's node either spends using the refund condition but

>     the transaction doesn't confirm, or he decides the cost of fees to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    the transaction doesn't confirm, or he determines the cost of fees to
```

    claim the refund are higher than the value and doesn't create a
    spend.  Prior to this PR, Bob's node wouldn't create an offchain
    cancellation of the HTLC he received from Alice because that could
    allow Alice to keep the money she forwarded to Bob and for Carol to
    claim the money Bob forwarded to her, costing Bob the amount of the
    HTLC.

>     However, after 20 block expiry of the HTLC Alice offered him, she

Reviewer 3: Maybe "after a 20 block expiry" or "after the 20 block expiry"?

>     can force close the channel to attempt to receive a refund of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    can force-close the channel to attempt to receive a refund of the
```

    amount she forwarded to Bob, and her software may automatically do
    this to prevent Alice from potentially losing the money to a node

>     upstream of her.  But, if she force closes the channel, she

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    upstream of her.  But, if she force-closes the channel, she
```

    might end up in the same position as Bob: she's either unable to
    claim the refund or doesn't attempt it because it's not economical.
    That means a useful channel between Alice and Bob was closed for no

>     gain to either one of them.  This problem could be repeated over and
>     over again for any hops upstream of Alice, resulting in a cascade of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    gain to either one of them.  This problem could be repeated
    for any hops upstream of Alice, resulting in a cascade of
```
Or at least, I would say, remove "again" (redundant).

    unwanted channel closures.

    The solution implemented in this PR is for Bob to wait as long as

>     reasonable to claim a refund and, if it's not going to happen, he

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    is reasonable to claim a refund and, if it's not going to happen, he
```

>     reasonable to claim a refund and, if it's not going to happen, he
>     creates an offchain cancellation of the HTLC he received from Alice,

Reviewer 2: nit: the solution is for Bob to wait and create
```suggestion
    reasonable to claim a refund and, if it's not going to happen,
    create an offchain cancellation of the HTLC he received from Alice,
```

    allowing their channel to continue operating even if it means he
    might lose the amount of the HTLC.

- [Core Lightning #6399][] adds support to the `pay` command for paying
  invoices created by the local node.  This can simplify account
  management code for software that calls CLN in the background, as
  discussed in a recent [mailing list thread][fiatjaf custodial].

- [Core Lightning #6389][] adds an optional CLNRest service, "a

>   lightweight Python-based core lightning plugin that transforms RPC

Reviewer 4: Since it’s also capitalized just below:

```suggestion
  lightweight Python-based Core Lightning plugin that transforms RPC
```

  calls into a REST service. By generating REST API endpoints, it
  enables the execution of Core Lightning's RPC methods behind the
  scenes and provides responses in JSON format."  See its
  [documentation][clnrest doc] for details.

- [Core Lightning #6403][] and [#6437][core lightning #6437] move the
  runes authorization and authentication mechanism out of CLN's commando
  plugin (see [Newsletter #210][news210 commando]) and into its core

>   functionality, allowing other plugins to use them.  A number of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  functionality, allowing other plugins to use them.  Several
```

  commands related to creating, destroying, and renaming runes are also
  updated.

- [Core Lightning #6398][] extends the `setchannel` RPC with a new
  `ignorefeelimits` option that will ignore the minimum onchain fee
  limits for the channel, allowing the remote channel counterparty to
  set a feerate below the minimum the local node will permit.  This can
  help work around a potential bug in another LN node implementation or
  can be used to eliminate fee contention as a source of problems in
  partly trusted channels.

- [Core Lightning #5492][] adds User-level Statically Defined Tracepoints
  (USDT) and the means to use them.  These allow users to probe the
  internal operation of their node for debugging without introducing any
  significant overhead when tracepoints aren't being used.  See
  [Newsletter #133][news133 usdt] for the previous inclusion of USDT
  support into Bitcoin Core.

> - [Eclair #2680][] adds support for the quiescence negotiation protocol

Reviewer 4: Perhaps one more sentence on what a “quiescence negotiation protocol” might be would be helpful.

  that is required by the [splicing protocol][topic splicing] proposed
  in [BOLTs #863][].  Eclair already supports splicing, but this change
  brings it closer to supporting the same splicing protocol that other
  node software will likely use.

- [LND #7820][] adds to the `BatchOpenChannel` RPC all the fields
  available to the non-batched `OpenChannel` RPC except for
  `funding_shim` (not needed for batched opens) and `fundmax` (you
  can't give one channel all of the balance when opening multiple
  channels).

- [LND #7516][] extends the `OpenChannel` RPC with a new `utxo`
  parameter that allows specifying one or more UTXOs from the wallet
  which should be used to fund the new channel.

- [BTCPay Server #5155][] adds a reporting page to the back office that provides

>   payment and onchain wallet reports, ability to export to CSV, and is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  payment and onchain wallet reports, the ability to export to CSV, and is
```

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #262'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2023/08/02/
name: 2023-08-02-newsletter
slug: 2023-08-02-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter links to transcripts of recent LN specification
meetings and summarizes a thread about the safety of blind MuSig2
signing.  Also included are our regular sections with descriptions
of new releases, release candidates, and notable code changes to popular
Bitcoin infrastructure software.

## News

- **Transcripts of periodic LN specification meetings:** Carla
  Kirk-Cohen [posted][kc scripts] to the Lightning-Dev mailing list to
  announce that the last several video conference meetings to discuss
  changes to the LN specification were transcribed.  The transcripts are
  now [available][btcscripts spec] on Bitcoin Transcripts.  In related
  news, as discussed a few weeks ago during the in-person LN developer

>   conference, the '#lightning-dev` IRC chatroom on the [Libera.chat][]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  conference, the `#lightning-dev` IRC chatroom on the [Libera.chat][]
```

Reviewer 3: Thanks @azuchi , pushed a change to correct
